>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here's a solution for
the implementation of our graph
with an addNode and addEdge.
We are representing our
adjacency list as an object.
This allows us to do constant time
look up on permanent values so
you can save numbers,
you can save strings and such.
Here and just look it up
in real time versus when we were using
our example with an array, right?
It constrains us to only using numbers,
asterisks, not 100% true but
let's go with that.
So, object is better,
we have a little more flexibility
there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
So, we are going to, add a node,
we have just a catch here,
it's under final return.
Otherwise, just like we would do in
our pseudo code, we are going to
add,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: A key
to our object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
have it equal either itself,
if it exists, or an empty array.
Let's break that down a little bit.
We´re gonna say myGraph = newGraph.
Right, we´re just gonna initialize that.
If we did a console.log,
of our graph right now,
it would look something like this.
Does that surprise anybody?
No?
Okay, good.
So, we say myGraph.add,
no, add node and
we're gonna add the node asdf.
Let's use some strengths to mix it up.
I have to see a circle with
a number in it, a line,
again it's gonna make me go crazy.
[LAUGH] I don't know.
Okay, so now what does our
adjacency list look like?
It's gonna look like this.
We have asdf, right.
And this is what we are doing
here on line seven.
So we're looking at notes value, right?
We're just doing a look up on the object
and we're saving a value here
which will either be node set value,
right, we do a look up, there is no asdf.
So we're gonna go to the right and we're
gonna initialize it as an empty array.
So we see here we have asdf and then
we just put an empty array right there.
And so that's our adjacency list
with one item in it, no edges.
Okay, so now let's add,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Actually,
who has pets here?
Who loves animals?
Who is capable of making up names for
pets?
All of us,
I'm glad we have an inclusive game here.
Okay, so
this is gonna be our pet name list.
Some of them are going to be friends, and
we'll just have our
relationships between them.
Instead of add edge,
we can call it make friend.
So every edge we add is when you go to
the dog park and they sniff each other and
stuff and
then they become lifelong friends.
I think that's the process.
We can pseudocode that one out later,
but anyway, I think you get the picture.
We're gonna add pickle so pickle.
I think pickles is a better name for
an animal plural.
Okay so we have pickles,
and then who's got a pet?
What's their name?
>> Speaker 2: Dobby.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Dobby like
from Harry Potter?
Okay and that's a great name.
So now our adjacency list
looks like this nodes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Pickles,
comma, there we go.
Dobby, and
then since Dobby does not exist yet,
we just initialized it, it's just empty.
Who here has a pet named Pickles?
No one, who else here has a pet name,
any pet name?
>> Speaker 3: Gibson.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Gibson, you guys have
good names.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Gibson,
and so now our.
What could be a social network for
animals like pawbook or
something, I don't know.
>> Speaker 3: Pawbook's good.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Pawbook or furbook,
furbook, furbook.
>> Speaker 2: What if they don't have fur?
Well, what if you don't have a face?
[LAUGH] You know?
[LAUGH]
I'm really good at these insult wars.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Really though,
you don't have to have
a face to part of Facebook.
[LAUGH]
I think we're all so tired.
Okay, so here we are.
We're adding nodes and
if we were to sort of draw this,
we would just be drawing circles and
space because they're not connected.
Least useful graph ever.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
that's where the addEdge comes into play.
So here we are.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's add some edges.
So who do you think Pickles,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Makes
friends with first?
>> Speaker 3: Probably Dobby,
Gibson's kinda stand-offish.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
we're at the dog park, or
at the cat park, and Dobby and
Pickles meet, and
they become life-long friends.
Because we don't have
a remove edge in this graph.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So once you become
a friend,
you're always gonna be a friend forever.
So that's okay,
there's something sweet about that.
Okay, I'm gonna move our
picture down as well.
Okay, what does this do?
We're gonna have dobby and pickles.
We have value1 and value2.
So,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If for whatever reason
these things don't exist yet,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then we
are gonna say this is invalid,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
We might even wanna say, hey, why don't
we add the one that doesn't exist yet?
We could maybe initialize it,
I don't know, maybe.
So, this is undirective, so
we're gonna add both of these values
into the other person's list, okay?
So value one dobby, right?
So this is the lookup, and
we're gonna pushing pickles
into dobby's friends list,
okay, for a book.
So who do we, dobby, pickles, okay.
So here we go Pickles is there, and
then we also do the opposite.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now we know that pickles and
dobby have a connection forever.
And what that would look like
In a graph would just be right.
So we just have a connection like that.
All right,
let's make more friends with our pets.
Let's see we'll have Gibson
will make friends with dobby.
And so, we're gonna add the edge, so
we're gonna add dobby to gibson.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then we're also going
to add gibson to dobby.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool and now what we
just did is we just added this connection.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool and now if we
wanted to add pickles, right?
Then we would have to put pickles
inside of Gibson's friend list and
then we'd have to put Gibson inside
pickles' friendship list.
Cool and then that is,
represents this relationship.
Something like that.
So now we have graph though it
really like, friend, yehey.